---
# Default post front matter — copy this into a new file under _posts/
title: "Gear BLOG #2"
# You can omit `date` to let Jekyll use the filename (YYYY-MM-DD-title.md).
# If you include it, use this format: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS ±HHMM
date: "2025-11-24 02:39:40 +0000"
categories: [Blazor]
tags:
  - blazor
  - .net
  - gear
  - arm
author: blake
---

## Introduction

Gear has taken a bit of a break due to some other projects that came up. I ended up redesigning my network for better segmentation and speed. 

## Progress

There isn't really anything to report on Gear itself, unfortunately. I realized that I might as well wait a couple weeks for .NET 10 to be released. I've also been struggling with my Snapdragon X Elite processor for local development on .NET. Some of the challenges: 

1. Windows updates regularly kills virtualization on this platform (Lenovo Yoga Slim 7). After windows updates, I often need to turn off Hyper-V until a later patch is pushed. This is pretty disappointing as I love WSL and Windows Sandbox 
2. There is some bad behavior from WSL for ARM
3. .NET SDK is not well supported on WSL ARM images (or Linux on ARM in general)

For these reasons, I decided to set up an appropriate development target on a dedicated Debian 12 host. 

It's a great laptop, but the quirks made it bad enough that a remote development target makes the most sense. Luckily, Rider now has great support for remote host development. I can also work for hours from anywhere and the laptop is extremely light weight, so it's definitely not a regret yet. 

## Conclusion

I'm now fully prepared to keep working on Gear. I'm hoping that next update will go through database (postgreSQL) deployment with Aspire and start getting some items written to database! 

Wishing you the best, and see you next time! 

